---
title: "Cyber Threat Intelligence"
date: 2022-11-27
excerpt: "A quick overview about Cyber Threat Intelligence"
categories: Information Security
tags:
- Frameworks
- SOC
- Security
- Information Security
toc: true
toc_label: "My Table of Contents"
toc_icon: "cog"
---

Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) can be defined as evidence-based knowledge about adversaries, including their indicators, tactics, motivations, and actionable advice against them[^1].

* Data
  * Indicators associated with adversaries.
* Information
  * Combination of multiple data points.
* Intelligence
  * Contextual analysis of data and information.

The main goal of CTI is to understand the goals of an adversary and how to protect your environment against them.

## Threat Intelligence Classifications

* Strategic Intelligence:
  * High-level intelligence that looks into the organization's threat landscape and maps out the risk areas based on trends, patterns, and emerging threats that may impact business decisions.
* Technical Intelligence:
  * Evidence and artifacts of attacks used by an adversary. Incident response teams can use this intelligence to create a baseline attack surface for analysis and develop defense mechanisms.
* Tactical Intelligence:
  * Adversaries' tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs).
  * Can strengthen security controls and address vulnerabilities through real-time investigations.
* Operational Intelligence:
  * Looks into an adversary's specific motives and intent to perform an attack.
  * Use this intelligence to understand the critical assets available in the organization (people, processes, and technologies) that may be targeted.

## Cyber Threat Intelligence Lifecycle

1. Direction and Planning
    * Identify information assets and business processes that require defending.
    * Assess potential impact on losing the assets or through process interruptions.
    * Determine sources of data and intelligence to be used towards protection.
    * Identify tools and resources required to defend the assets.
2. Collection
    * Security analysts gather the required data.
3. Processing
    * Make the collected data usable.
4. Analysis
    * Analyze the data to derive actionable intelligence.
5. Dissemination
    * Bring the correlated data to the stakeholders.
6. Feedback
    * Improve CTI through feedback.

## Frameworks

* MITRE ATT&CK:
  * A globally accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on real-world observations.
* TAXII (Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator Information):
  * A protocol for exchanging cyber threat intelligence in a structured and automated manner.
* STIX (Structured Threat Information Expression):
  * A standardized language for representing structured cyber threat information.
* The Cyber Kill Chain:
  * A framework that describes the stages of a cyber attack, from reconnaissance to achieving objectives.
* The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis:
  * A framework that provides a structured approach to analyze cyber intrusions by considering the adversary, victim, infrastructure, and event meta-features.

## References

[tryhackme: Cyber Threat Intel](https://www.tryhackme.com/room/cyberthreatintel)
[Understanding the Cyber Threat Intelligence Cycle](https://www.zerofox.com/blog/cyber-threat-intelligence-cycle/)
