---
title: "Blue Team Level 1"
categories: 
- informationsecurity
tags:
- blue team
classes: 
- wide
excerpt: "" 
toc: true
--- 

## Blue Team Roles

### SOC Analyst

* The SOC team is in charge of protecting, monitoring, identifying, and eliminating threats in the IT systems of a company.
* <[def2]>

### IT Security Analyst

* information security analyst
* can include hardening systems, identifying suspicious activity, informing IT administrators of any risk, keeping systems updated, and more.

### Incident Responder

* They are in charge of reacting immediately to any security incident, or any internal threat that occurs in the IT environment.

### Threat Analyst

* seeking to identify a possible threat that may affect the organization
* <https://www.digitalguardian.com/blog/what-does-insider-threat-analyst-do>

### Security Engineer

* Design and implement security measures, carry out software testing and evaluation, and monitor networks and computer systems, among many other tasks
* <https://www.careerexplorer.com/careers/security-engineer/>

### Security Consultant

* Evaluate threats, identify violations and bad security practices, and mainly, create protocols, standards, and contingency plans that can be used by the organization in its defensive scenario.

### Security Architect

* are responsible for designing, building, and maintaining operational security structures that are deployed in an organization
* must apply industry best practices and must think like an adversary, anticipating their movements and creating action plans to prevent system compromises
* <https://www.cybersecurityeducation.org/careers/security-architect/>

### Identity and Access Analyst (IAM)

* are responsible for protecting accounts across on-premise and cloud systems.
* prevent account abuse by implementing policies and technical controls to enforce the principle of least privilege, detect and remediate account sharing, and remove unused accounts
* <https://www.vmware.com/topics/glossary/content/identity-management.html>

### Forensic Computer Analyst

* work on sensitive investigations, collecting and analyzing devices to identify digital evidence that can be used for either incident response, or legal prosecution purposes, depending on which organization they work for

## Soft Skills

### Communication tips

* K.I.S.S - "Keep It Simple Stupid"
* If someone doesn't understand you, rephrase what you're saying
* Body language matters
* Keep it professional
* If you're working from home, wear pants

### Teamwork

## Security Controlls

### Endpoint

* HIDS - Host Intrusion Detection
  * on an endpoint for the detection of suspicious or malicious activity
  * using rules which are checked against activity to see if it matches any known malicious patterns
  * generate alerts, can send to a SIEM
  * Snort, Tripwire, Sysmon, OSSEC
* HIPS - Host Intrusion Prevention
  * like HIDS, but is able to take autonomous actions to defend systems
  * Micrososft Defender for Endpoint, Trend Micro Apex One
* Anti-Virus Solutions
  * Signature-based
    * use signatures which are specific patterns of activity to identify previously documented malware
  * Behavior-based
    * works to identify suspicious behavior by creating a baseline of "normal" activity
* Log Monitoring
  * a SIEM platform, where this data is aggregated, normalized, and matched against a number of rules designed to detect and flag suspicious or unusual activity
* Endpoint Detection and Response
  * continuously monitors and collects data from endpoints (like laptops, servers, and mobile devices) to identify, investigate, and respond to potential security threats.
* Vulnerability Scanning
  * should be conducted against endpoints to detect misconfigurations, security flaws, and vulnerabilities
  * can scan authenticated
  * External scan
    * provide an organization with an "attackers view"
  * Internal scan
    * give a more comprehensive view of the security posture of internal system
* Compliance Scanning
  * vulnerability scanners will often have profiles or pre-set setting configurations to look specifically for details that the compliance framework covers

### Network Security

* NIDS - Network Intrusion Detection
  * software or physical devices that tap monitor network traffic in order to generate alerts for human analysts to investigate
  * The purpose of NIDS is purely to generate alerts so that human analysts can investigate and take action if needed
  * **Inline**
    * is sitting directly in the path of network traffic
    * all traffic will pass through the NIDS
  * **Network Tap**
    * will be connected to the network by tapping into a physical connection, such as a cable
  * **passive**
    * is connected to a SPAN (Switched Port Analyzer) port on a network device
    * duplicates the networktraffic from one or more ports
    * so the NIDS will get a copy of all network activity
* NIPS - Network Intrusion Prevention System
  * are able to automatically take defensive actions based on the activity that has been identified
  * NIDS can detect activity and generate an alert, but NIPS can detect activity and take actions to defend agains
* Firewalls
  * separate parts of a network to create private zones by restricting the traffic that can come in or go out.
  * **Standard firewalls** run on dedicated hardware and sit at key points of the network.
  * **Local firewalls** in software form run on endpoints (such as Windows firewall).
  * **Web application firewalls** in software form sit on internet-facing web servers that host websites or web applications.
* Log Monitoring
  * SIEM
* NAC - Network Access Control
  * can work to prevent rogue or non-compliant devices from connecting to a private network
  * security teams could require that any devices connecting to the network need the latest patches and security updates, and must be running anti-virus. NAC is able to enforce this, and not let devices connect to the network until they have met all of the requirements.

### AAA Control Methods

* Authentication
  * using some form of verification *to confirm that the identity is correct*
  * types of authentication
    * Something you know
    * Something you have
    * Something you are
  * implement controls from 2 or 3 of these categories, we are employing a ‘multi-factor’ approach to access security
* Authorization
  * is all about what the authenticated user is permitted to do
  * Principle of Least Privilege, we always want to give individuals only the access they require to complete their job
* Accountability
  * is the process of being able to identify what has happened

### Investigating a Phishing Email

* Sending Address
* Subject Line
* Recipient(s)
* Date and Time
* Sending Server IP
  * ```X-Sender-IP```
  * [whois][https://whois.domaintools.com/]
* replies
  * ```X-Originating-IP```
* Reverse DNS of Sending Server IP
* Reply-To (if present)
* Hyperlinks
  * search for http in text editor

### Email Security Technology

* SPF - Sender Policy Framework
  * record is established to identify the hostnames or IP addresses that are allowed to send emails for your custom domain
  * ```v=spf1 <IP> <enforcement rule> -> v=spf1 a: include:mailgun.org protection.outlook.com -all```
* DKIM - Domain Keys Identified Mail
  * ```V=DKIM1 <key type> <public key>```
  * signs the message with hash of the content per private key encryption
  * public key is in dns record and can be used to decrypt
* DMARC - Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance
  * ```v=DMARC1 <action> <report address> -> v=DMARC1; p=quarantine; rua=mailto:contact@securityblue.team```
  * an email authentication, policy, and reporting protocol
  * This type of record allows the domain owner to specify what should happen if emails fail both SPF and DKIM checks

### E-Mail report writing

#### Email Header, Artifacts, and Body Content

* Screenshot
* Email Header and Artifacts
* write approximately 1-2 sentences describing what the email looks like, and what it’s trying to get the recipient to do
* msg or eml as attachment

```bash
Email Header:

    Sending Email Address (Ex: J0hnSm1th@gmail.com)
    Reply-to Address (Ex: F4keacc0unt2421@gmail.com)
    Date Sent (Ex: 20th October 2019, 9:34 AM)
    Sending Server IP (Ex: 40.92.10.10)
    Reverse DNS of Sending Server IP (Ex: mail-oln040092010100.outbound.protection.outlook.com)
    Recipient(s) (Ex: jason.s@domain.com, kirsty.p@domain.com, brian.b@domain.com)
    Subject Line (Ex: Payroll Update – URGENT!)

 

Email with URLs:

    Any relevant URLs (Sanitised) (Ex: hxxps://Healthcare-United[.]com/wp/index/2020/PAYPAL/lure.php?)

 

Emails with Attachments:

    File Name(s) + Extension (Ex: PayrollDecember_UK.exe)
    MD5 Hash(es)
```

#### Analysis Process, Tools, and Results

```bash
Malicious Artifact Analysis (URL) Report Example

    URLs: https://maliciousdomainexample[.]com/index/2019/amazon/login.aspx
    (The following analysis is not reflective of this URL, but is based on previous experience in investigating phishing emails and sites, and therefore reflects real investigations).

WHOIS Analysis – Performing a WHOIS search shows that the domain was registered 3 days ago, with NameCheap as the domain registrar. There is no information about the site owner/domain registrant.

VirusTotal Reputation – Searching for the full URL and the root domain on VT shows that it is currently not being flagged as malicious, likely the result of the domain being new, so security engines haven’t crawled it yet.

URL2PNG Analysis – Using URL2PNG to view the link destination showed that the site was hosting a fake Amazon login portal, used to steal any credentials that are entered. Looking at the root domain “https://maliciousdomainexample[.]com” shows that the site doesn’t have a genuine homepage, a common sight when domains are used for purely malicious operations.
```

#### artifact sanitization

* 8.8.8.8 becomes 8[.]8[.]8[.]8
* *https://hello.example.com* becomes hxxp[://]hello[.]example[.]com
* [cyberchef recipe][https://cyberchef.org/#recipe=Defang_URL(true,true,true,'Valid%20domains%20and%20full%20URLs')Defang_IP_Addresses()]

#### report template

```bash
BTL1 Phishing Analysis Domain - Report Writing Basic Template

=======================================
Section 1: Email Description and Artifacts Collected
=======================================
(Include a brief description of the email, and list any artefacts that have been retrieved, including email-based, web-based, and file-based if applicable)



=======================================
Section 2: Artifact Analysis
=======================================
(Include what actions have been taken to analyse email, file, and web-based artefacts, such as the tools and any results)



=======================================
Section 3: Suggested Defensive Measures
=======================================
(Consider what actions we need to take to protect the organizations. Also remember if blocking an artifact could have a negative consequence!)
```

### Threat Inteligence

Threat intelligence is evidence-based knowledge (e.g., context, mechanisms, indicators, implications and action-oriented advice) about existing or emerging menaces or hazards to assets. – Gartner

#### threat intelligence lifecycle

1. Requirements:
    * Setting the goals and methodology for the threat intelligence program.
    * Identifying attackers, their motivations, attack surfaces, and defense strategies.
1. Collection:
    * Gathering data from various sources, such as logs, public sources, forums, and experts.
1. Processing:
    * Organizing and preparing the collected data for analysis.
    * Decrypting files, translating foreign information, and assessing data relevance and reliability.
1. Analysis:
    * Conducting in-depth analysis to answer the questions posed in the requirements phase.
    * Translating data into actionable recommendations.
1. Dissemination:
    * Presenting analysis results to stakeholders in a clear and concise format.
    * Customizing the presentation to suit the audience's needs and preferences.
1. Feedback:
    * Seeking feedback from stakeholders to refine future threat intelligence operations.
    * Adjusting priorities, report cadence, and dissemination methods based on feedback.

* https://www.crowdstrike.com/cybersecurity-101/threat-intelligence/

#### types of intelligence

1. SIGINT (Signal Intelligence):
    * Involves intercepting radio signals and broadcast communications for intelligence purposes.
    * Includes COMINT (Communications Intelligence) focused on messages and voice communication between people and groups, and ELINT (Electronic Intelligence) collected from systems not used directly for communications, such as missile systems and radars.
    * Used in electronic warfare, surveillance drones, and communication interceptions to maintain intelligence pipelines.
1. OSINT (Open-Source Intelligence):
    * Involves gathering information from publicly available sources on the internet.
    * Information sources can include driving records, telephone numbers, social media, email addresses, and more.
    * Provides a wealth of data for threat detection, tracking, and defense but can also be exploited by malicious actors.
1. HUMINT (Human Intelligence):
    * Gathers intelligence from interactions with other humans.
    * Requires an understanding of human behavior, emotions, and motivations.
    * Gathered through in-person meetings, debriefings, observation, document collection, espionage, or diplomatic communication.
1. GEOINT (Geospatial Intelligence):
    * Focuses on geospatial data and imagery.
    * Utilizes satellite imaging to provide intelligence on targets, land structures, military movements, and natural disasters.
    * Helps coordinate military operations, aid delivery during disasters, and first-responder deployments.

#### types of threat inteligence

* *Tactical Intelligence*:
  * Focuses on immediate threats and identifies basic indicators of compromise (IOCs).
* *Operational Intelligence*:
  * Involves campaign tracking and actor profiling, providing insight into adversaries' TTPs.
* *Strategic Intelligence*:
  * Informs business decisions, linking cyber threats to higher-level factors like geopolitical conditions​​.

## Digital forensics

### Identifying File System

* FTK Imager
* File -> Add Evidence Item

### Metadata

* "Data about Data"

```bash
# Windows
right click on file -> settings

# linux
ls -lisap <file>
stat <file>

# linux advanced informations
exiftool <file>
```

### retrieve deleted files (file carving)

* scalpel

```bash
# look at scalpel config and define what you want to find
# you need to uncommend the files you want to find
/etc/scalpel/scalpel.conf

# start extracting Files
scalpel -o /home/steh/output_directory DiskImage1.img

```

### ACPO Principles

* full bit copy image of the memory present on the digital device should be taken
* data is acquired using a suitable write-blocking hardware unit
* When presenting evidence in court, one should demonstrate objectivity, fairness, and the ability to explain the digital evidence process comprehensively. This ensures that a third-party expert can replicate the process and obtain the same results as presented in court if necessary.

The key principles outlined in the ACPO Good Practice Guide for Computer-Based Electronic Evidence are as follows:

* ACPO Principle 1:
  * Data on digital devices, including computers and mobile phones, should not be altered in a way that could affect its potential use as evidence in court.
* ACPO Principle 2:
  * Anyone accessing original data on a digital device must have the necessary competence to do so and should be capable of explaining their actions and their impact on digital evidence to the court.
* ACPO Principle 3:
  * A comprehensive record of all actions taken with digital evidence must be created and preserved. An independent forensic expert should be able to review these processes and reach the same conclusions.
* ACPO Principle 4:
  * The individual leading the investigation bears the overall responsibility for ensuring that the ACPO principles are consistently followed throughout the investigation.

### Chain of Custody

1. USE A WRITE BLOCKER
1. create a hash of every file ensure it was not altered
  1. MD5 and SHA1 to prevent hash collision
  1. SHA256
1. create a copy
  * dd
  * Forensic Toolkit (FTK) and EnCase
1. store the copy in an antistatic bag or a Faraday cage to prevent wireless communication and cellular signal exchange
1. fill out a Chain of Custody form

## Forensic Tools

### Forensicaly

### FTL Imager

* use E01 as target format, is used by analysis tools

### KAPE - Live Acquisition

### ProcDump

## Windows Investigations

* LNK Files
  * are used to link files
  * how to view:
    * C:\Users\$USER$\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Recent
    * [Windows File Analyzer][https://www.mitec.cz/wfa.html]
* Prefetch Files
  * programm information  like:
    * name of the application, the path to the executable file, when the program was last run, and when the program was created/installed
  * location:
    * C:\Windows\Prefetch
    * [Prefetch Explorer Command Line or PECmd.exe][https://github.com/EricZimmerman/PECmd]
    PECmd.exe -f "C:\Temp\CALC.EXE-3FBEF7FD.pf"
    PECmd.exe -d "C:\Temp\"
  * Jump List
    * automaticDestination-ms and customDestination-ms. These files contain information about applications that are pinned to the taskbar, such as the file path, timestamps, and application identifiers (AppIDs)
    * location:
      * C:\Users\% USERNAME%\AppData\ Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Recent\AutomaticDestinations
      * C:\Users\%USERNAME%\AppData\ Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Recent\CustomDestinations
      * [JumpListExplorer][https://ericzimmerman.github.io/#!index.md]

* part of windows sysinternals

```bash
# find process id
get-Process | findstr -I calc

# create memory dump
procdump.exe -ma 1688

```

### Windows Browser Forensics

* KAPE – [Download][https://www.kroll.com/en/insights/publications/cyber/kroll-artifact-parser-extractor-kape]
* Browser History Viewer – [Download (Choose the 100% free version)][https://www.foxtonforensics.com/browser-history-viewer/]
* Browser History Capturer – [Download][https://www.foxtonforensics.com/browser-history-capturer/]

### Windows Logon Events

* Location: C:\Windows\System32\winevt\Logs\Security
* Event ID 4624 (Successful Logon)
* Event ID 4672 (Special Logon)
  * User with administrator rights
* Event ID 4625 (Failed Logon)
* Event ID 4634 (Logoff)

### Recycle Bin

* C:\$Recycle.Bin
  * **dir /a** - lists also hidden files
  * you see subfolders with SIDs
  * **wmic useraccount get name,SID** - get SIDs
  * In the folder are two files:
    * **$R** - followed by a random string contain the true file contents of the recycled file
    * **$I** - counterpart contain the metadata for that specific file
* Tools to analyse
  * Command Prompt (CMD)
  * RBCmd - [GitHub - EricZimmerman/RBCmd: Recycle bin artifact parser][https://github.com/EricZimmerman/RBCmd]
    * **C:\Users\BTLOTest\Desktop\Recycle-Bin-Analysis\Tools\RBCmd.exe -f $I1UOZ51.xlsx**
    * **C:\Users\BTLOTest\Desktop\Recycle-Bin-Analysis\Tools\RBCmd.exe -d . --csv "C:\Users\BTLOTest\Desktop\RBCmdOutput"** - nput the current directory (-d . ) and export a CSV to a folder on the Desktop of our user
  * CSVQuickViewer

## Linux Investigations

### Files

* **/etc/passwd**
  * User and Groups
  * readable by every user
* **/etc/shadows**
  * contains password and informations 
  * is encrypted and can only be read by root
* **/var/log/auth.log**
  * Contains system authentication information, including user logins.
* **/var/log/dpkg.log**
  * Contains information that is logged when a package is installed or removed using the ‘dpkg’ command. This is similar to the packages command from the var/lib section above.
* **/var/log/btmp**
  * This file contains information about failed login attempts.
* **/var/log/cron**
  * Whenever the cron daemon starts a cron job, it logs the information about the cron job in this file. This is useful because cron jobs can be abused for persistence on a system.
* **/var/log/secure**
  * Contains information related to authentication and authorization privileges. For example, sshd (the daemon used for the SSH service) logs all the messages here, including unsuccessful login attempts.
* **/var/log/faillog**
  * Contains user failed login attempts.

## Linux Artifacts: User Files

* .bash_history
  * **.bash_history** or cat **.bash_history**
* Hidden files and directories
  * **ls -a**
* Clear files and directories
  * Desktop, Trash, Documents, Downloads
* Steganography
  * **“The practice of concealing messages or information within other non-secret text or data.”**
  * zip inside an image
    * **cat Dog.jpg secretmessage.zip > Dog2.jpg**
  * steghide
    * **steghide embed -cf Dog.jpg -ef secretmessage**
    * **steghide extract -sf Dog.jpg**
  * exiftool
    * **exiftool -Comment="Super Sneaky!" Dog.jpg**
    * **exiftool Dog.jpg**

## volatile memory analysis

* will show you the system infos
  * **volatility -f memdump.mem imageinfo**
  * use this info from now on: **--profile=WinXPSP2x86**
* examples
  * print a list of processes
    * **volatility -f memdump.mem --profile=PROFILE pslist**
  * print a process tree to the terminal
    * **volatility -f memdump.mem --profile=PROFILE pstree**
  * identify any files on the system from the memory image
    * **volatility -f memdump.mem --profile=PROFILE filesca**
  * retrieve files from the memory image
    * **volatility -f memdump.mem --profile=PROFILE dumpfiles -n --dump-dir=./**
  * identify any active or closed network connections
    * **volatility -f memdump.mem --profile=PROFILE netscan**

## thoughts about the course

* phishtool -> explain that you shouldn´t upload company mails to websites
* url shortener -> add a + to the url to see its target
* writing reports was something new to me

## preparation for the test

* email report template

## source

* [Text][def]

[def]: https://steh.github.io
[def2]: ttps://www.csoonline.com/article/569239/soc-analyst-job-description-salary-and-certification.htm
