---
title: ""
categories: 
- informationsecurity
tags:
- blue team
classes: 
- wide
excerpt: "" 
toc: true
--- 

## Lesson 1: Introduction
### What is an anomaly?

> An anomaly is “an observation which deviates so much from other observations as to arouse suspicions that it was generated by a different mechanism.” (Hawkins 1980)

- All observations = normal data + outliers
- Outliers = noise + anomalies
- Noise = uninteresting outliers
- Anomaly = sufficiently interesting outlier

### Types of anomalies

- **Point anomalies**: an individual data point seems strange when compared with
the rest of the data. Example: an unusually large credit card purchase
-  **Contextual anomalies**: the data seems strange in a specific context, but not
otherwise. Example: a US credit card holder makes a purchase in Japan
- **Collective anomalies**: a collection of data points seems strange when compared
with entire dataset, although each point may be OK. Example: ten consecutive
credit card purchases for a sandwich at hourly interval

### the fundamental ideas

The approach used by almost all anomaly detection algorithms:
- Create a model for what normal (typical, usual) data should look like*
- Calculate a score for each data point that measures how far from normal it is
- If score is above a previously specified threshold, classify point as an anomaly

> Median and mode are usually less affected by outliers than mean

- **Variance**: the expected value of the square of the deviation of a random
variable from its mean
- **Covariance**: it measures the joint variability of two random variables

- scoring anomalies:
    - **z-score**: measures how far a point is away from the mean as signed multiple of the standard deviation
    - use median instead of mean, for more reliability
    - **Mahalanobis distance**: Mahalanobis distance is a "smart" distance that adapts to the shape of your data.


### statistic fundamentals

- **Mean**: also known as the expected value
- **Median**: the value separating the higher half and lower half of the data
- **Mode**: the value that appears most often

### Questions you need to ask?

- How big must the deviation be for a point to be classified as an anomaly?
    - No easy answer. The classification depends in part on subjective judgment.
- How do I separate an anomaly from noise?
    - Depends on what is “sufficiently interesting” for you.

## source

* [intel: Anomaly Detection Course][def]
* [Outlier Analysis by Charu C. Aggarwal (sample)][def1]
* [Using the Median Absolute Deviation to Find Outliers][def2]

[def]: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/topic-technology/artificial-intelligence/training/course-anomaly-detection.html
[def1]: https://charuaggarwal.net/outlierbook.pdf
[def2]: https://eurekastatistics.com/using-the-median-absolute-deviation-to-find-outliers/