---
title: "Digital Forensics and Incident Response"
categories: 
- informationsecurity
tags:
- blue team
classes: 
- wide
excerpt: "" 
toc: true
--- 

## What is DFIR?

* covers the collection of forensic artifacts from digital devices( computers, media devices) to investigate an incident
* helps identify footprints left by an attacker when a security incident occurs
* *needs*:
    * sifting false alarms from actual incidents
    * Robustly removing the attacker
    * Understanding attacker
    * Sharing information about the attacker with the community
* *who performes*
    *  **Digital Forensics**: 
        *  experts in identifying forensic artifacts or evidence of human activity in digital devices. 
    * **Incident Response**:
        * experts in cybersecurity and leverage forensic information to identify the activity of interest from a security perspective. 

## basic concepts

* **Artifacts**
    *  are pieces of evidence that point to an activity performed on a system
* **Evidence Preservation**
    *  maintain the integrity of the evidence we are collecting
* **Chain of custody**
    * When the evidence is collected, it must be made sure that it is kept in secure custody
* **Order of volatility**
    * 
* **Timeline creation**
    * understandably to fully use the information contained in them
    * timeline of events needs to be created for efficient and accurate analysis

## Tools

 * Eric Zimmerman's tools:
    * These tools help the registry, file system, timeline, and many other analyses. To learn more about these tools, you can check out the Windows Forensics 1 and Windows Forensics 2 rooms, where these tools are discussed concerning the different artifacts found in the Windows Operating System.#
* KAPE:
    * Kroll Artifact Parser and Extractor (KAPE) is another beneficial tool by Eric Zimmerman. This tool automates the collection and parsing of forensic artifacts and can help create a timeline of events. You can check out the KAPE room to learn more about KAPE.
* Autopsy:
    * Autopsy is an open-source forensics platform that helps analyze data from digital media like mobile devices, hard drives, and removable drives. Various plugins for autopsy speed up the forensic process and extract and present valuable information from the raw data sources. TryHackMe's Autopsy room can help if you want to learn more about it.
* Volatility:
    * Volatility is a tool that helps perform memory analysis for memory captures from both Windows and Linux Operating Systems. It is a powerful tool that can help extract valuable information from the memory of a machine under investigation. You can learn more about Volatility in the Volatility room.
* Redline:
    * Redline is an incident response tool developed and freely distributed by FireEye. This tool can gather forensic data from a system and help with collected forensic information. You can learn more about Redline in the Redline room.
* Velociraptor:
    * Velociraptor is an advanced endpoint-monitoring, forensics, and response platform. It is open-source but very powerful. TryHackMe has created a Velociraptor room for you to learn more about it.

## Incident Response Prozess

1. Preparation: Before an incident happens, preparation needs to be done so that everyone is ready in case of an incident. Preparation includes having the required people, processes, and technology to prevent and respond to incidents.
2. Identification: An incident is identified through some indicators in the identification phase. These indicators are then analyzed for False Positives, documented, and communicated to the relevant stakeholders.
3. Containment: In this phase, the incident is contained, and efforts are made to limit its effects. There can be short-term and long-term fixes for containing the threat based on forensic analysis of the incident that will be a part of this phase.
4. Eradication: Next, the threat is eradicated from the network. It has to be ensured that a proper forensic analysis is performed and the threat is effectively contained before eradication. For example, if the entry point of the threat actor into the network is not plugged, the threat will not be effectively eradicated, and the actor can gain a foothold again.
5. Recovery: Once the threat is removed from the network, the services that had been disrupted are brought back as they were before the incident happened.
6. Lessons Learned: Finally, a review of the incident is performed, the incident is documented, and steps are taken based on the findings from the incident to make sure that the team is better prepared for the next time an incident occurs.

# Windows

* location:
    * C:\Windows\System32\Config
        * DEFAULT (mounted on HKEY_USERS\DEFAULT)
        * SAM (mounted on HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SAM)
        * SECURITY (mounted on HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Security)
        * SOFTWARE (mounted on HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software)
        * SYSTEM (mounted on HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System)
* User-information:
    * C:\Users\<username>\
        * NTUSER.DAT (mounted on HKEY_CURRENT_USER when a user logs in)
        * USRCLASS.DAT (mounted on HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\CLASSES)

## Windows Registry

* roots:
    * HKEY_CURRENT_USER
        * root of the configuration information for the user who is currently logged on
    * HKEY_USERS
        * Contains all the actively loaded user profiles on the computer
    * HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE
        * Contains configuration information particular to the computer (for any user)
    * HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT
        * 
    * HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG
        * Contains information about the hardware profile that is used by the local computer at system startup


## source

* [DFIR: An Introduction][def]
* [SANS: Incident Handler's Handbook][def1]
* [NIST: Computer Security Incident Handling Guide][def2]

[def]: https://tryhackme.com/room/introductoryroomdfirmodule
[def1]: https://www.sans.org/white-papers/33901/
[def2]: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-61r2.pdf